intro to classes: c# week 4

several paradigms, ways of thinking 
programmers use to solve programming
procedural:
focuses on the process involved in solving a partivcular problem and how the data involved in those processes will be shared.
We used this approach in 133N. We talked about what should happen in th eprograms we where writing. We focused on VERBS as apposed to NOUNS.

we wrote algorithms to describe details of main.
sometimes wrote an algorithm that was complex rboke it up into smaller pieces called methods. we identified parameters

object oriented:
Focuseds on the the things involved in a system
adentifiy the entities in each problem space. welll focus on NOUNS rather than verbs.

well build software components or classes that model each of the things we identify each class will have
attributes or characteristics that it knows about itself
behaviors or methods that it knows how to do.
teach class what it means to be that kind of thingswhat does it mean to be a Customer? What does it mean to be a product?
What does it mean to be a Domino? What does it mean to be a card?

Obj oriented program is the zen approach to programming.

we'll build applications by dropping our classes into an application and letting them do their stuff.
we are going to build 4 classes this week first one each pair. i'll do the second

product and customer class
domino playing card.



object think:
what does it mean to be a customer or product?
whats name of class?
what attributes or characteristics does it have? what things doe sit need to know about itself, to differentiate it from another product?
what nbehaviors or actions does it need to know about how to do in order to behave like a product?


class diagram:
top is class name
middle section lists the attributes or characteristics
third section lists properties these are speciall .net classes that are like getters and setters. these become properties
bottom section list the methods including special methods called constructors that are used to create and object.
properties are special things gets and sets like code descrtions id quanity unit price .. like helpers.
fields
methods are constructors constructors identified by same name as class
default constructors
detailed constructors overloaded 
tostring(): string

more vocab:
Class is software template or blueprint for things
When you use the template to create a thing you have instiated an object
Encapsulation is the software engineering term that refers to the fact a class combines all the characteristics and behaviors necssary to be a thing it is self contained


example class introduce syntax semantics
practice customer class
domino class example
practice card class

code:
walk through product class, talk about it, talk about how to test a class
the first problem is in the lab asks you to use the product class as a model to create the customer class she'll walk us through the specification next.

Given code for domino class it adds validation to the setters she'll talk about that third and will talk abou thow to test the validation.
The second problem in the lab asks you to create the card class and will walk through the specification for that class last.
